OmniBlade Design Document

Dungeon Structure -

overall, I want to have a looting style of gameplay
the fights will be lightly randomly encountered and chests will have many monster-in-a-boxes.
if the player dies, they go back to the main menu. high stakes gameplay is a key design point.
and you can only save outside of a dungeon
all dungeons are accessible from the start, but in order to enter all but the first one, you have to use a key to get in which can be bought from the shop. and whenever the player leaves the dungeon, the door is relocked (so you need to buy another key).
higher level dungeons require more expensive keys

Party Structure -

you can hire a new party member in any order, but each consecutive hire costs significantly more so that you won't be able to acquire them all until stage 6 or 7.

you can put allies in any order, but Jinn will always be the map avatar.

Story / Progress Structure -

There were once 9 demons that came together to destroy the world.
the heroes of yore came together to destroy them, however, they found that they could not be killed.
so instead they pushed them back into the ancient tomb from whence they came and locked them within.
it is rumored that the demons had hoarded vast treasures in the tomb, including the sword of the goddess of time, OmniBlade.
as a treasure hunter, you received word that an alchemist who was researching the mysteries of the ancient seals was traveling to the gates. you hear that other explorer had picked up this word as well.
not believing in anything such as 'ancient demons', you decide to make the trip to investigate what treasures can be liberated by yours truly before anyone else.
In order to open the door to the entrance to the next section, you must find one of the 'echoes' of the possessed. After their exposition, they will leave behind a trinket that will open the way.

Narrative Structure -

The journey through each stage is a series of encounters with the 'echo' of a person who the stage's demon is using to link into the world. The echo is the character's self-recollection at different points in their life, usually malformative. The dialog is what they said during those various points in time. From a psychological perspective, you're watching them relive their experiences. The echo can see you and even address you, but they don't know who you are and are often not interested in why you're there. You see your surroundings, but they see the environment in which their life event took place. Through their monologue, you witness the origin of the thoughts that turned into obsessions that became portals through which demons could enter them. When the demon is defeated, you see their echoes converge and form a ghost that can now see reality as what it is. Through instrospection, they come to understand their weakness and its consequences. They finish their self-talk / monologue. You then tell them "It's time to go." A light falls over them, and they rise and fade.

Ultimately, you learn that you were called there for the same reason as those who are trapped. It is by your own pathological desires that you were drawn there - material desire and a hatred for suffering. If you choose to take the OmniBlade at the end of the game, you will be succumb to possession and your soul becomes a portal through which the army of Hell emerges to destroy the world.

And of course, the mysterious NPC who is helping you is really himself possessed and trying to ensnare you. He planned for you to liberate the souls of the possessed people with the treasures you had found in the tomb as a loss leader to tempt you with possession of its ultimate weapon, OmniBlade. He argues that with this weapon, you will be able to liberate the souls of not just a few, but the whole world from the endless cycle of suffering.

As for music, you can see generally how the tracks will progress on each level. One important caveat is that the music for the next action section will either start during the echo encounter on the current section or at the end of it. The music is organized specifically to drive the narrative structure.

Levels -

Cave (The Girl who was Never Free) -

Part 1 (DarkBat, BlueGoblin, Minotaur, FireGoblin) -

"What is freedom...? It must be the death of purpose... I was born a servent of a servent. My master is cruel, but unlike the world, her cruelty is predictable. It is something to which I am accustomed. It is the chaos beyond these walls that I could not bear..."

"Why does every day get worse? Why must I be humiliated at every opportunity? The fortunes of other servents rise, but I am kept at the bottom... Nothing I do goes uncriticized. She may be my master, but she herself serves under the Queen. She is cruel not because she doesn't understand what it is like... she is cruel because she understands exactly... They all do..."

Part 2 (Gorgon, Soldier, Hawk, HeavyArmoros) -

"They have always treated me this way. Things cannot be put right. Things can only be put in my favor. You are either the donkey or you are the whip. A life time of poison is what she has given to me; I shall give it back to her all in one moment. By the custom of succession, I will take her stead. Imagine their faces when they see the lowest servent become the highest... their victim will become their tormentor... Things could not be put right..."

"He told me that my beauty was why I suffered their cruelty all these years... No one ever said anything like that to me before. He said he would take me from this place... But how can I leave now? For a fleeting moment my heart's desire can be heard over my lust for vengeance. Vengeance and numbness is all I have ever felt. How can I leave now..."

Part 3 (Apparition, Cloak, BloodArmoros, Spider) -

"It is done. Everyone wears a blank face now. The Queen's messenger has informed me that I will take my master's stead. No one knows of my plan, not even Jean. He has proposed that he leave his post that we may again meet. I long for his company, but I asked him to defer his leave for another week. My title will be made official and throughout that night I will hear them weep the way they once heard me... They know what price their cruelty has brought them due... It cannot be undone."

"No... You're lying. You cruel liar... You stupid liar! Jean is not dead!... Stop it... Jean's not dead. He's not dead..."

"Wickedness. Darkness. There's nothing left of my heart now. Blackness. Creulty... I will show them a creulty that they have never witnessed... My master taught me well... but even her I shall surpass... Darkness. Wickedness. Until one of them gives me the same end as I gave to her..."

She never knew freedom. She was a servent of a servent of a Queen who, many suspect, killed the King. She poisoned her master and took her place. Through treachery and cunning, she rose through the servant ranks. When a vassal from another kingdom offered her freedom as his bride, she turned him down. Not because he was unseemly, but because of all of the power she had come to wield other those who once humiliated her. Later, after hearing news of his death, she turned her thoughts back to him. She became enraged and, in her grief, she devoted the rest of her life to being as wicked as she could be to those below her.

When she passed, her lingering soul became a portal for the Demon of Entanglement (Spider) to return to the world.

Forest (The Man with Unfinished Business) -

He knew death was near. He had too many things left to do. Too many scores to settle. Too many loose ends to tie up. He would do anything to get the time required to preserve his legacy. If he could trade his soul to maintain his business, he would do it. It was said that there was an exiled princess living in the forest that can give life beyond death...

He gave himself to the lady. Henceforth, he extended his life by devouring the blood of others. For many years he carried out his business. But one day he was accused of being a vampire. He tried to defend himself and his legacy, but eventually his son and only heir would come to know the truth. The son came to his father sword in hand. But the son was slain instead. Outside he could hear the people rabbling. The building had been put to flame. In fire, he perished cursing the people, the country, and God himself. His soul went to where it was promised - into the hands of the Demon of Undeath (Lich).

Desert (The Boy who was Stranded) -

Factory (The Woman with a Broken Heart) -

Too many have been devoured by disease. Everything is dying. But there is no time to cry. There is no time to feel anything at all. These machines we build, they are the only things that will survive this. I will become like this machine. We know how the mind works. We know how to keep what is needed and how to throw away the rest. The mind is just another machine... We can fix a machine. I will be the first to do this knowing the consequences. I will keep what is needed. I will throw away the rest.

After the last member of her village passed, she started walking the road to the neighboring village. There, she found only several surviving children. She could see in their eyes the unbearable pain she could once feel. Do not cry children. Your minds are just another machine... We can fix a machine. We will keep what is needed. We will throw away the rest...

The Demon of Machinery (Robomination) could not but agree with so clearly rational a sentiment.

Castle (The Lady Whose Child Was Lost) -

She lost her husband to war. All that remained of his memory is their son. His eyes were just like his father's. One day she was summoned to the castle for business about recompense for her husband's death. Accompanied by her young son, she walked through the busiest hall of the castle. Where is he? She called out to him. He is gone. Please help me find him. What do you mean you cannot find him? The castle may be closing to the public, but I cannot find my son. Please let me find my son. Please let me back in. How can you put me out here? Please let me find my son... No one brings word. No one knows his whereabouts. This stipend is all I have of their memory. They took them both from me. You tell me to not despair. You tell me to have faith. You do not know what this means. I will go to the lake. I will not return.

Her soul came into possession Demon of Despair (Hydra)

(Resolution) "I saw your eyes in a dream... I'm sorry. I miss you..."

Jungle (The Boy who could not Forgive - Demon of Retribution) -

A frail boy with a gentle heart living under the yoke of a devouring monster. He would do anything for protection, but even those who would protect him turned against him out of fear. There is no cost too high to pay for vengenace... (pathological vengeance-seeking - demon of retribution).

Mountain (The Prince Who Would Have Nothing) -

A prince who saw the corrupting evils of materialism, who escaped to the mountain to live a life of meagerness... (pathological ego denial - demon of devouring)

Ruins (The Girl Who Danced for Hell) -

She was a bucket of paint. She wanted to spill herself all over the world. She will do anything to manifest her (pathological vanity - demon of hell's opening gate)

Dead Sea (The Boy Who Was Stranded - Demon of Chaos) -

Seasons (The Man torn by War) -

On his father's side, the West. On his mother's, the East. A leader with divided loyalties. In time, he grew to hate both sides. If their terrible nature were to drag him to death, he would take all of them with him using a forbidden weapon (pathological rage - demon of destruction)

Volcano (The Girl With The Endless Dream) -

She could not face reality, so she locked herself in a dream... (pathological escapism - demon of delusion)

Characters -

Riain (Dimensionalist) - Riain is actually schizo qt 3.14. her mind is barely able to connect with people.
so her words are minimal and direct
the rest of them are spot on, tho.
as a conjuror, she moved a part of her mind into another dimension;
that's how she pulls idealized forms and archetypal beings into this dimension.
but having her mind split across dimensions makes it hard for her to communicate.
the permanency of her condition was an accident, however - most conjurers have a sufficiently mild form of which they can go in and out at will
given the severity of her condition, and the embarrassment it caused her guild, she was locked away until "something could be figured out,"
nothing was ever figured out, however.
after escaping, however, her otherworldly visions led her here.
to symbolize her duality of being / sight, I'm going to make one of her eyes green and the other blue
the green eye sees what's in this world, the blue eye sees what's in the other
i would also like the idea that her compromised/aberrant condition among conjurers has as corollary a (potential) savant level of power.
bryaneddsToday at 6:16 PM
that's basically what it is, and the reason they locked her away
too dangerous
deanjleeToday at 6:18 PM
more power, less control.
bryaneddsToday at 6:19 PM
well, initially she couldn't tell what was 'real' and what was not, so she was justifiably terrifed
she learned some discipline and self-control over the long period of time she was effectively imprisoned
had she not, should would've not been able to escape

Dev Notes -

PeriTune music was normalized to -6.0db.